Hello again you Gloria's got to people in this video we're gonna continue talking about auto tiles specifically
working with collisions working with collisions in auto tiles is not too different from working with
bit masks but there are a couple of important differences.
First you need to know is that you need to set up every tile individually.
Now the bit mask we painted the bit mask on to the tiles as one image.
But here we need to select the tile you want put the collision on and then select the next tile.
Second thing you can set the whole tile or part of the tile to have collision.
In our case pretty much all the tiles me the whole time which can save time.
But I will show you how do part of the tile.
So first I want to get into my game and I'm going to over levels and open up template level.
Here I have an empty thing and I could just test it by drawing some stuff.
Here is a floor here some walls.
Great.
So still there.
Now let's take a look at our tile map.
What TILE SET rather want to make this nice and big.
Click on the tile sheet and make sure we're in the right tile the press right.
And which one are you.
Those are the floors I'm pressing bit mosque which they should show up on the right.
But I'm actually doing it.
OK.
Here is the one we want.
So what I need to do is add collision to this.
Now if I press the collision tab up here and I can press the little name so we can see these are the
walls.
These are the floors.
I know I'm dealing with these areas.
Let's zoom in a bit a little tricky because my cat is on my hand while I'm on the keyboard.
Thank you caboodle.
You don't want to ever do that name gets in the way.
You'll notice that most of these walls are solid all the way through.
So here we have a half full.
Here we have a round wall that's gonna be a pain but most of these are sort of the way through which
means we can actually just set up a full collision.
So if I select the tile I want and then press this square and click it.
We don't have collision on that tile but only that tile so I need to click each one that I want which
is going to be a little bit time consuming.
So the tile press the thing.
Press it again.
Tile per square press.
Again this is much better than it was in 3.0.
It's still a little fiddly a little time consuming but it doesn't really want to automate it too much.
Now what happens if I don't want to use the whole square.
What happens if I want to use part of the square let's say I'm going to have both of these as possible
pillars.
But this one isn't the full system first thing to do is set my snap options so it's going to hit a snap
options.
And right now we're at 64.
I want to make sure that my grid is as big as it can be but as small as it has to be.
So let's bring you down to a start with eight eight is actually pretty solid isn't it OK.
So that's getting most of it.
It's not all of it.
So try for and you can see even four isn't doing and I do want to keep it snaps if I didn't care about
the outside red line of this let's move up a 64 so now she's up to about this outline it wouldn't matter
too much but I do.
So you know what let's just put it all the way to one which is a terrible zoom level but it is what
it is.
There we go.
OK.
Little time consuming now I'm going to click the polygon and I've got to add these in just the right
place.
So let's let you first.
Now at the polygon One two three four and close.
Now if I need to move any of these I can I can drag them around as you can see not ideal so it's bringing
you back to 64 by 64 and zoom right out.
There we go.
It's a little easier with these half holes now as it happens these hopefuls will never happen because
our tiles are 64 by 64.
There is no instance where our Tom map is going to let these ones happen but just to show how that work.
Let's do a slightly easier version so let's do a 32 by 32 tile map.
Select this one polygon and now it's a lot easier right because I can only place these polygons where
the grid will let me.
That's nice and quick.
I mean I say nice and quick I still have to do it manually.
Why do I have to do each one manually.
Because God doesn't know which part of the tile I actually want to have collision which one I don't.
So it's just gonna assume everything needs to be done manually.
So let's just zoom for these and you know I might actually fast forward this one
OK so that's what I'm really looking at right now at the moment I met you in the lead this collision
course I'm not using that time like to click my bit mosques.
I'm not using any of these three if I want these circle ones.
I've got a much more difficult problem right.
Because assuming I don't want to see a square collision I want a square collision.
This is easy.
Whoops was given to you go back to collisions forswear collision.
I could just do what I've been doing right.
This whole tile is now colliding.
But what if I want a more precise than what I need to do a switch snap off and try and match this as
well as I can.
And frankly this is no fun at all.
I just dislike this intensely so I'm not going to use this.
I'm not going to.
But if you want to.
That's how you do it.
Let's zoom out a bit.
I'm not sure why zooming out like that.
OK.
So now we need a way of testing this.
Now I'm not just testing that the tiles can be placed.
I know they can be placed.
I need to test that they stop the player to do that.
We need to bring the player in and that's really be my challenge for you.
I'd like you to prepare to test the altered tiles.
Bring an instance of the player into the template level seen every single level is going to have a player.
So let's add it to the template that's going to allow us to test the collision and the alter tiles.
If you want to you can also add a camera to denote as a child of the player so that the player will
always be in the center of the screen.
So post a video give it a shot.
And when you come back I'll show you my solution
and walk back.
OK.
So let's instance in a player.
So here's my template level.
I'm going to press instance which is this chain link.
And right now we only have foreseen.
So player and there is the player.
OK.
So the play is up there.
That means when I play this scene from the Dubai play scene up here players on the top left corner.
That's not useful so I need the play to be the center.
So I'm going to add in a child note and that's going to be a camera 2d to make it current.
I'm not going to set it is rotating because it makes me dizzy.
But now we have a camera and the player is roughly in the center.
We can't really see what's happening because I mean I'm still moving when to the edge here but it's
roughly working.
If I put it is rotating the player is always me facing the same way not what I want.
OK.
So how do I know that's working.
Well let's put a level so let's make you nice and big and zoom out.
There we go.
Let's put in a floor so Libertyville buddy Billy Bob and I'm going to do a bucket fill.
I didn't realize it would finish that.
That's handy.
And now I'm just going to make a little wobbly section let's put a couple pillars maybe a pillar of
here and
a little running around a bit.
OK.
Test the same.
So now I make this nice and big.
The camera will follow the plan once the play gets the edge
and you can see the walls are stopping the plan and that's everything we need.
Now their mind if you want to add different order tiles you see the same exact thing.
So let's say we want to go back into Tom apps let's say we want to add these walls here all these concrete
walls is that concrete.
I think that's concrete.
We'd have to repeat the entire process over again.
In other words first making you oughta tile then we define our region then I'm going to put in our bit
masks then we're going to put in a collision later in the series we'll also be adding inclusions had
these walls who cast shadows and we might want a bit of navigation.
So the more these we add in the more work it is.
But once it's there we can make levels very quickly.
Right.
So I can make a little shed like make an outside section and the tile map would actually let you do
that.
I look at these sprites again we have outside sections we have parking lots or it could be a research
Bay or whatever you want.
Lots of office bits the furniture can come in later the lighting can come in later.
Not entirely sure what the deal is with this concrete wall but it's kind of awesome and I think really
that's everything I to cover so let's add the video there.
In this video how to add collisions to alter tiles nice and simple which just builds upon what we already
knew and we're now going to go with him.
So excellent work and I'll see you on the next video.